---
title: Archives
---
Back in October of 2014 I wiped this blog and started all over again in an attempt at a fresh start and the beginning of more regular posting. The lack of baggage was supposed to be the catalyst to help me post, to a degree it has worked and I've been posting here much more regularly since the turn of the year. The Week in Links has helped, and is approaching it's six month anniversary.

On Monday evening I read a <a href="http://paulstamatiou.com/10-years-blogging/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">post by Paul Stamatiou</a> about his years of blogging. I was struck by a particular sentence half way through:
> The era of the personal website is over. It's now just a personal landing page with a photo, bio and link to a Twitter profile.

I understand exactly where he is coming from, but I also disagree, to a certain extent. It's true a lot of websites have disappeared over the last few years, but over the last few months I've seen a resurgence in the personal site/blog. Something that I want to be a part of. It got me thinking about my own personal site, and the changes it's been through over the last decade. I've never binned it to replace it with a personal site, but I did recently delete all my posts and before that I had another blog that has gone the way of the Dodo.

It struck me how wrong that is. I put a lot of time and effort into writing those posts, and for them to be erased is just plain wrong. Fortunately I managed to locate a backup of this site from just before I wiped it, and I've now added all the posts back into the archive. There's still a bit of tidying up to do but for the most part the archives now extend all the way back to January 2011. I'm also hoping to be able to locate an old backup of my very first blog, the one that existed prior to this one. I've been writing on the internet for nearly a decade now, it should be preserved and maintained in some form or another not consigned to oblivion.

All of this to say, I've added the archives back to this place. If you're interested and have the time, why not have a dig through and see what you can find.
