---
title: Lockdown 3
---
We have been in Lockdown 3 for a few weeks now as Covid-19 continues to spread through the population. The government issued stay at home notices again, but this time people don’t seem to be following things quite as closely.

It’s both frustrating and annoying seeing so many people still meeting up with friends, even travelling across cities to meet in the park for birthdays. Everyone it seems is able to find a way of exempting themselves from the rules.

I’ve decided to approach this lockdown differently as well. Maybe because it’s also a new year, I’m not sure. I’m trying to eat more healthily, snack less, and exercise more.

The nations favourite–or maybe least favourite judging by some of social media–PE teacher Joe Wicks, has been doing his live workouts again. This has been my workout of choice so far, I’ve not been doing it live as it’s at an inconvenient time for work, but I’ve been doing the recorded versions at a later time. I’m 6 for 6 so far, and I’d never thought I’d say this about HIIT workouts, but I’m actually enjoying them. Although not the ache or stiffness in my legs after.

I’ve also been taking more time to read this time. In the first lockdown I couldn’t concentrate on a book, I wasn’t able to focus for more than a couple of minutes and would find myself rereading sentences over and over. This time however has been different. I’m finding that familiar refuge in fiction again. Getting lost in another world that exists only in my imagination and one that doesn’t have the anxiety that comes with the world we live in right now.

I’ve also been watching the last season of Portrait Artist of the Year. It’s one of the few “reality” tv shows I enjoy. Previous series have always made me feel inspired, but this time around it seems to be more so. I’ve even sorted out all my old art materials with the aim of finding some time to pick up a brush. We will see what happens there.

As I finish writing this the sun is coming out. The covering of snow I woke up too this morning is still there, but I fear it may not last long. Time to dig out the wellies and go for a walk.
